Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,553,752 articles in English From today's featured article Chincoteague pony swim in 2007 The human history of Chincoteague, an island on the Eastern Shore of Virginia, begins with Native Americans gathering shellfish there. By one popular legend, the name meant "Beautiful land across the water" in their language. The feral population of Chincoteague ponies likely originated from European settlers using the island in the 17th century to graze livestock. Seafood resources were systematically exploited in the early 19th century, and oysters became a major industry after the Civil War. Chincoteague's relative isolation ended in 1876 when the railroad arrived at Franklin City, across Chincoteague Bay, and a steamboat service was introduced; a road causeway was completed in 1922. The Chincoteague Fire Department was established in 1925 and took over the traditional pony penning to raise funds. The 1947 book Misty of Chincoteague and its 1961 film helped publicize the island. The annual carnival, pony swim (pictured) and subsequent auction now attract tens of thousands of visitors. (Full article...) Recently featured: Barkhale Camp Edward the Elder John Tyndall (far-right activist) Archive By email More featured articles About Did you know ... A 1920s group of the Cotton Blossom Singers ... that up to 13 groups of the Cotton Blossom Singers (group pictured) toured through the United States at a time? ... that Ada Buisson died at the age of 27, and her short story "The Ghost's Summons" has been anthologised several times since her death? ... that some members of the Daughters of the American Revolution came up with the idea to design a flag of Colorado, unaware that such a flag already existed? ... that after a massacre that took place there, the village of Sohagpur was renamed the "village of widows"? ... that Theophilus Gates started a nudist free-love Christian sect in the mid–19th century near Pottstown, Pennsylvania? ... that after its merger with India, the last raja of Jubbal State joined the Indian Foreign Service? ... that Adele reduced the length of "I Drink Wine" from fifteen to six minutes because her label thought that no one would play a fifteen-minute song on the radio? ... that Dan Jones discovered that he was talented at taking throw-ins after having been a javelin thrower at school? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Jonas Vingegaard In cycling, Jonas Vingegaard (pictured) wins the Tour de France. The World Health Organization declares the monkeypox outbreak a public health emergency of international concern. The Chinese paddlefish, one of the world's largest freshwater fish species, is declared extinct by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Amid protests over the economic crisis, Ranil Wickremesinghe is elected President of Sri Lanka by the parliament. Ongoing: COVID-19 pandemic Russian invasion of Ukraine Recent deaths: Paul Sorvino Chin Kung David Trimble Tim Giago Maria Petri Jim Lynch Nominate an article On this day July 27: Battle of Bouvines 1054 – During his invasion of Scotland, Siward, Earl of Northumbria, defeated Macbeth, King of Scotland, in an engagement north of the Firth of Forth. 1214 – Philip II of France decisively won the Battle of Bouvines (pictured), the conclusive battle of the 1213–1214 Anglo-French War. 1942 – Second World War: Allied forces halted the Axis invasion of Egypt at the First Battle of El Alamein. 1949 – The de Havilland Comet, the world's first commercial jet airliner to reach production, made its maiden flight. 1983 – American musician Madonna released her self-titled debut album, which set the standard for the genre of dance-pop for decades. Conrad II of Italy (d. 1101) Elizabeth Rona (d. 1981) A. P. J. Abdul Kalam (d. 2015) More anniversaries: July 26 July 27 July 28 Archive By email List of days of the year Today's featured picture Ice speedway is a form of motorcycle-speedway racing on frozen surfaces. The sport uses specialised bikes that race anticlockwise around oval tracks between 260 and 425 metres (853 and 1,394 ft) in length, with a race structure and scoring similar to that of speedway racing. This photograph depicts the German speedway racer Max Niedermaier practising in Inzell, Germany, for the finals of the 2018 Individual Ice Racing World Championship, organised by the sport's governing body, the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme. Photograph credit: Walter Isack Recently featured: Diamond firetail Lion's mane jellyfish Turgot map of Paris Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements. Village pump – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues. Site news – Sources of news about Wikipedia and the broader Wikimedia movement. Teahouse – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia. Help desk – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia. Reference desk – Ask research questions about encyclopedic topics. Content portals – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning tools Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. 1,000,000+ articles ??????? Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? Svenska ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? 250,000+ articles Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú ????????? Català ?eština Dansk Esperanto Euskara ?????? ????? ??? Magyar Norsk Bokmål Român? Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe 50,000+ articles Asturianu ????? Bosanski Eesti ???????? Simple English Galego Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvi? ?????? ?????????? Norsk nynorsk Shqip Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ??? Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=1093586708" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk English Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Languages ??????? ????? ????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar ?????????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? This page was last edited on 17 June 2022, at 15:25 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement
